what are the salary ranges because I
wasn't looking for jobs back
then 100 I was in college and I was
about to drop out essentially my first
year at College was very very bad mmy
Pap everything failed M reached out to
then Swami intervened and he he sort of
told me by spirituality is not for
losers now go back to college and you
have to come first in everything that
you do like all the courses you have to
come first like all a he was the one
pressure like people younger than you
are are like working a job together they
earning crores in money and um they
they're doing their college degree as
well people in high school are doing
this if you can't succeed in the
material world what will you do in the
spiritual world all right let me set the
context for the video in this video we
have Karen Karan is a cot one student he
recently dropped out of college he's 21
years old and got a full stack full-time
role from a us-based remote startup for
230k us that's around 2C INR all cash
remotely from India U he did not get
into a very hyped company he got into a
fairly traditional profitable old
business called gumroad he's not from a
tier one college this is not a campus
placement into an hft that pays this
much he worked a lot in open source had
a lot of rejections contributed to
multiple repositories used that leverage
to finally get this offer he's one of
the best students from cohort one in
fact he took a class in cohort one on
JavaScript and Promises I'll post that
class on the 100ex steps channel the
goal of the video is for him to share
his journey step by step what are the
things that he learned how did he learn
them how was he applying what were the
rejections he saw what all repositories
did he contribute to and hopefully make
you learn something new he's covered all
Corners as I said not from a college
right out of college um did not get a
campus placement worked a lot through
open source showed a lot of proof of
work networked a lot and finally got
this offer so there's no red flag or
something extraordinary in his journey
other than a little bit of luck um so I
would suggest if you want to take this
video in good spirit it's a great video
to learn a lot from if you feel this
video is going to affect your mental
health in any form or fashion feel free
to skip this one he has a very nice AMA
that he took at Super 30 today you can
watch that at our sister Channel 100ex
steps um you are interested in a
breakdown of his journey this video will
take you through that with that let's
get right into it so welcome Karan to
the board Karan is kotan uh one of the
best students there and very high grit
um I remember uh back then he told me
150k and he proved it uh he got a 230k
US offer right out of college not even
right out of college he was in college
when he got it and eventually dropped
out uh he's currently working at CAD
which is a a very big orc but at the
same time very Niche when it comes to
hiring they only have 20 Engineers he
told me um and he's one of them now
probably the only hire directly from
India um his future plans what he told
me is he might be moving to the US on an
01 if his 01 goes through um and
basically from what I've learned AB he's
just very good at very high agency very
good at doing things that he's been
given and also a lot of bets that he
took a lot of uh things that he did by
going out of his comfort zone meeting
Founders uh helped him get this job so
we'll talk about all of this with that
Karan welcome to the Pod would love to
know about you yeah thank you so much
for inviting me this is kind of
like uh but uh thank you so much for
inviting me honor to be here honor to be
sitting with
you 50
what are the salary ranges because I
wasn't looking for jobs back then
right 400
[Laughter]
100 this was when C he was one of the
best students I was just starting the
process of referrals so when he gave me
this number there was no company other
than backpack that I knew that would
hire at this range um so that was the
first refl that I gave him which was
back in like 2 years ago or something
think um 2023 2023 July yeah around that
time uh I remember I was in Dubai I was
just about to move to Japan and he built
a very clean assignment he told
me but still in like two days he built a
clone of binance which is what backpack
was toally moving to as well building an
exchange uh it didn't work out in the
end but I saw very high uh agency over
there K Joi bu when the project came
even though it came like a day later it
was very polished U and you know he also
took a class in cohort one which was on
JavaScript Asing promises which had
pretty mixed feedbacks honestly uh they
were very bipolar feedbacks some people
loved it some people hated it I'll post
that session somewhere on the other
channel 100ex STS um it's a very nice
channel on or a very nice talk on how
you should be learning um but again only
meant for high agency people because
it's very self-driven one of his core
learnings or thesis back then
was and you'll see that in that session
as well so that's where we started uh
and I remember Delhi me Bangalore Meetup
may we met again um and from there you
sort of started your own Journey so
would love to knowah say what all did
you
do so in
Bangalore I met
you after that I was I was in third year
college
then and then
um so then I thought ke um let's let's
start uh following an example that
you've said so one
of the the biggest things that helped me
was your video on the backpack open
source
contributions so I tried to replicate
that a few times first time I tried to
replicate that was this uh YC company
called light Dash I think YC
exact to I contributed
I got I think 7 eight PRS merged and I
had a few like seven eight more open and
after
that generally the feedback from people
from the developers was ke this is good
but then the CTO said ke we don't have
the band with to view to review your
work and generally everybody's work they
just they just shut down and they
focused on their core team so that was a
dead end but that those seven PRS they
gave me some leverage that I have this
open source
contribution in this 4,000 star
repository so then I used that to apply
to places one of the people I reached
out to was sahil sahil
lavingia and
um I messaged him so he had a hiring
tweet he were hiring people email me if
interested so I reached out to him and I
told him I've contributed to this I uh
linked the project I made
which
um you asked me to do and
reject then I started looking for more
open source repositories I think in
September um there was this open source
repository tiny grad which is um Run by
George Hots that was in AI so I thought
ke this is worth a shot I didn't know
anything about a or even now I don't
know anything about a but I thought
maybe some of the easier things I could
to try to do some
jugar so I got a few PRS merged by
himme my ultimate goal was to get some
bounties uh so he has a sheet Google
sheet of like $200 Bounty solve this you
get $200 Sol this you get $1,000 I tried
to do that but balancing college with
that was very very
hard so that also didn't work out I had
like two contributions in dinr and then
I thought no this is probably not then I
focused on College until I think
December December May when my break
happened
then then I started aggressively look
like applying um and looking for
opportunities in
January two things happened one thing
that happened was that sahil tweeted
he's coming to India and he posted a
link to a telegram
group so I thought yeah but and he was
coming to my city he was coming to Delhi
Bangalore and I don't remember the last
one so he came to Delhi and I met him
didn't talk about a job I was at the
time I was also interested in startups
how this stuff works and I was gum roads
of beautiful thing that he's built like
gumro alumni
are have built billion dollar companies
there's this former person who worked at
gumroad Michel
Hashimoto to he he co-founded Hashi
which is I think worth some 13 142
billion um and then there was also this
other guy Sid yadav at
gumroad who also built Circle doso which
is also a very big company and gumroad
just been this very very unique Place uh
that s's managed to create generate a
lot of interest in lots of people are
very interested in gumro so I was
interested in that and I wanted to know
what happens how you do it generally and
just listen to him talk uh there were
two sessions when he came uh one was um
just a Q&A with another host there were
like 50 people sitting I was sitting I
raised my hand they didn't pick
me so there was an after party sort of
thing after
party it was just a
Meetup it was just like sah just talking
for hours on end
eventually he left but uh I try to get
in get as much information and try to do
things to keep him to keep me in his
mind uh so that he remembers and
everything I try to keep natural
very
well the second thing that happened in
January was I got very very lucky that
this open- Source repository which used
the same stack as my contributions as
the light Dash thing that I contributed
to before it became open source and it
was becoming popular very very quickly
very
quickly
to I think when I saw it 10,000 stars
and there was a tweet with 500,000
Impressions uh which was posted I think
a few days
ago I
thought the top people on this they very
very new so maybe I can do something
here because I have some leverage from
the previous stuff I did so then I
started
contributing um I luckily ended up
winning a bounty a $250 bount County and
I became the number two highest
contributor on the
repository so then I
[Music]
thought
number um I reached out to him I told
him ke I I this is open source is one of
my favorite things this is remote this
is an awesome opportunity I I'd love to
sort of be a part of this and um this is
the work I've done so
far the
problem he had this company that he open
sourced he had founded in 2020 and he he
had to shut it down because it wasn't
financially viable so here he wanted to
save costs so understandably he only
picked people he had worked with before
so the the same team from
2022 that he
picked
to but I had that uh
in the top two contributors in the repo
so I had that thing as leverage to show
people so then I started applying to
companies there was this company
million.
JS
uh I applied um I got they gave me an
assignment I applied to a lot more other
companies like hundreds of companies I
must have apply to and lots of people
ghosted me and then I started being
active on Twitter as well I made some
small small side project tried to make
it go viral didn't go viral but then it
was something that some people found
interesting so who luckily I could use
as a leverage to show Founders key I
have I can do something so proof of work
I try to produce as much
of
then I reached out to sahil with that
maybe
contribution and um initially he
said board meeting cro has four public
board meetings every year so the next
one at that time was 15th
Feb we've stopped hiring we'll only
start hiring after the board meeting so
then I waited until the board
meeting in the board meeting he gave he
said ke if if you're looking for a job
at gumroad solve this particular problem
he gave a non-coding problem a general
logic problem
uh I can go into more detail if you'd
like but then I I somehow ended up
solving that problem and I was I think
like one of the only two people who
solved that problem and
um so then he got impressed by that he
asked
me so and I I ended up delivering a
little more on that problem I'll go into
detail if you'd like yeah that'd be good
what was the problem statement okay the
problem statement was that um
so there was a zoom
meeting you had multiple people all of
them had the cameras on like this was
actually it's a board meeting right they
have their cameras on
S if you're looking for jobs at
gumroad give me a rough floor layout of
the place where this meeting is
happening and tell me the positions
where everybody is sitting to you had to
figure that out from where everybody was
sitting
backg he was trying to test that so
that I sort of figured out but what
additional thing I did which I was very
very lucky at doing by the way ke I
actually found the exact building they
were in the exact floor they were in
um where the board meeting was happening
and I actually found the actual floor
plan of that floor nice and so when I
sent that to S he got a little
spooked but then when I explained it to
him he was
like um so by background there was a
building I had to do some reverse
searching but luckily the building
opposite was a very famous building
photography and it was
Stanford Bridge
York
that's but um I I came up with something
which I thought this sah might like and
then I submitted that to him he said ke
good good um let's do a
call so then call call me he asked me
general questions
ke we talked about gumroad no technical
interview it was just a culture fi call
for some context the gumroad interview
process is first you
start first you reach out to S via email
right and then you get on a call Fe
after the call there's a work trial and
then if you pass the work trial
you get accepted into the company so I
was at the call stage call stage may we
generally talked
about gumro new features he told me that
uh we're becoming a merchant of record
basically so gumroad is an e-commerce
platform so Merchant of record means he
in like we'll also be collecting tax
from um sellers
Etc so we talked about that we talked
about other features and he asked
me how do you pay your bills at that
time I wasn't really paying my bills
because I didn't have a job but uh uh
luckily I had done some I had done the
this um freelancing gig at this other
web3 company which was doing
decentralized
di I built uh this
transpiler uh which basically transpiled
like Onyx onx is a way to represent
machine learning models right so from
Onyx to their own custom framework P say
there they have their own custom
framework ml go Ino so I had to build a
transpiler I built it in Python which uh
transpiled Onyx code an onyx file to
mlco to that was also part of a work
trial it wasn't a
freelance freelance technically like on
contract it was freelance so I can also
say that but it was a work trial so then
I used that as a way to say this is what
I've been doing recently and maybe he
knew he talked to me about maybe how
much of it is your codee so I honestly
said okay only a few thousand lines of
my
code just I think a thousand or S lines
of my baky relatively new to the project
but I've been instantly able to
contribute uh I've been instantly
productive from day one and if you drop
me in any code base I'll be instantly
productive that's the pitch I
made
uh call went well he said okay fine
let's do a work trial just tell me
Monday which you would like to start and
let's do that so I was very happy uh
then I just followed up on him to just
confirm
because
like there's there's that fear when
you're looking for for jobs people will
ghost you that's very at least I had
that big fear so I was constantly
following up with
people constantly following up just to
confirm any Monday right chat um yeah
just uh build
a um the specific phrasing was I'd build
a Ruby on Rails project if I were you
because the gumro stack is in Ruby on
Rails and then any Monday
works it's a recommendation he's just
recommending me I build this so I try to
build it huani I thought I'll learn on
the job
um so but I reached out to him ke okay
does next Monday work he said where's
the
challenge I
was and then it's a bad impression as
well he was thinking something else I'm
thinking something else so then I didn't
reply anything two weeks I think two or
three I don't remember two or three
weeks just spent grinding my head on
Ruby on Rails and I built this thing
called neat Royale neat Royale is
basically like a battle royale for neat
question questions like you have 100
players
um and uh like you have 60 seconds to
solve a question the person who's the
slowest solving the question gets kicked
out so that was the thing I I think it
was active until a few months ago for
AWS
bills nobody was using it so I shut it
down NE royal.com I still have the
domain I think uh maybe it's expired so
then that happened so I built that I
sent it him and there were a lot of
unconventional Technologies like I was
using websockets Ruby on Rails
equivalent of websockets is action cable
so I used that and then I built a fully
functioning thing it was realtime
communication to generally I thought
this is hopefully this works but this is
more effort than a normal uh sort of run
off the M
project and IDE and S likes these kinds
of funky ideas yes
so then I sent that and then he said oh
looks good um let's start next
Monday how fragile these things are and
how careful you need to be and how lucky
you need to be um I was also applying to
a few other companies where I was in the
interview rounds at this point
I got the work
trial
and once I got the work trial I was a
little more confident because I could
use this work trial as a next jumping
point like I use maybe gumroad work is
also something that is not completely
for it might raise some eyes the if the
doesn't work out I'll write a blog or
I'll write a tweet then I'll Focus I'll
get some Impressions get some people
seeing my work seeing nroyal and Fair
perhaps we can do
something gumroad work trial was also um
it was it was fun but it was also
very lots of uncertainty lots of uh uh
stress but um
so gamka work trial usually lasts from
four to 6 weeks mine ended up lasting
two
months and um two months May sah told me
later there was something wrong in the
Cod base which wasn't allowing people to
perform some something documentation Etc
so then he he
said initially you weren performing but
then we realized generally you there was
another person with me so you and this
other guy generally good so I think we
should change our
U whatever methods we use so then I got
uh probably I got accepted by a very
small
margin um that happened and yeah that's
how I got in gumroad on 17th June
2024 very cool so that's interesting uh
though this this looks like it's a lot
of persistence and as you said these
markets are very fragile maybe he would
have forgotten maybe he forgot to
message uh but you put in a lot of input
um for example NE Royale for example um
you know spending a lot of time and even
if it doesn't work out it doesn't work
out um a lot of people with you know
let's say similar skills as you similar
intellect are stuck in a rut where you
know either they're not trying hard
enough or they're not as lucky as you
were or you know they did not get that
reply uh so do you have any suggestion
for them we have only done this one
time any advice I
have repeated this but since I've only
done this once I can't say you're
probably a much better person to ask for
advice because you've done this so many
times and you're far more experienced
than
me so can
advice but you got it recently in a
weird Market in not some hype company in
a very stable web to company that's
doing you know very normal things which
would there's no reason for them to hire
from India it's not like full stack
Talent is hard to get in the US um still
you were able to convince them uh to
hire remotely initially so and you've
been working there for 6 months from
India only still getting us comp um
these offers are usually you know in a
very small Niche where it's hard to find
people in the US um what do you think
you did right there for me that has
never happened okay you know a full
stack company is paying me thisy it's
either a web3 company or a web RTC
company there's some specific knowledge
that I'm bringing in um that gave me
leverage yeah I think if I look back on
it lots of luck
obviously and also I
think I I kept F I kept focus on a
single company for multiple months I
think like November start rejection I
leveled up a little bit took one more
step then I applied again um then that
sort of yeah as for more
stuff he said okay let's keep the train
going but to put in more effort more
effort so he he built a s is an awesome
Boss by the way I'll talk more about
gumroad um and the culture and how it's
a wonderful place but he sort of made
this stepping stone for me which I was
lucky enough like maybe was light Dash I
was lucky enough to contribute so I had
that in back of Mind next s Prisma
postgress Etc this was my fresh in mind
so that I could use to get a few good
contributions in uh lesser time than I
would have taken
otherwise
so and just like I just kept pushing
right I honestly
thought and especially something so high
stakes and then parents
pressure wellers PR especially once you
drop out of college because I drop out I
dropped out before getting a job oh yeah
so I dropped out in uh December 2020
three yeah Dropout so exact
Dropout I am from Ashoka University
which is which offers a BC in computer
science so that's a threee course but it
is recommended you take another fourth
year which is called the advanced
Scholars Program
ASP so I was in the first semester of
that advanced Scholars Program I had my
this BC degree but us may you need a
mandatory four years of higher education
and
Visa that's why like bch is four
years so most companies or most people
wouldn't even accept this as a full
degree so that's why I call it as a
Dropout so after dropping out
I knew I can contribute and uh if
somebody takes a bet on me I won't
disappoint at least based on proof of
work I'll try not to disappoint right so
yeah I just
um kept on pushing kept on doing what um
I needed to do and I was lucky enough to
be able to do it that my abilities were
at a place where I could push myself to
that point got it and let's you did not
get in here uh what was your backup plan
after
that no
backup I was interviewing at other
companies yeah if not 200k 100K 100 I
didn't have a figure in mind
but why not try
and I feel a lot of developers feel this
way it's it's just about getting your
foot in the door because most people can
do the
work so that getting foot in the door is
about impressing the other person is
about doing something that catches the
other person's eye and honestly like how
do you know what will catch the other
person's eye like just try to surprise
yourself try to surpass your own
expectations right
right yeah that makes sense very cool
uh thinking if I have more questions uh
oh how was your negotiation or was it
pretty chill there was no
negotiation fix it was uh $150 per hour
oh okay got it so it was a fixed comp
Global same pay
go and you're the only one from India
right now there are multiple people from
India um they're wonderful people by the
way so a couple of people Vish he's from
U so I won't name where name the place
where he's from but he's a wonderful
senior there's harbaksh there were
there's Shang and there's they were
originally in in India
and they've moved to Dubai I think so
they're wonderful people they're from
India in fact gumroad actually laid off
all its employees in I think 2015
2016 and after that sahil reached out to
this uh remote in firm Rubi on real from
called Big binary so the Shang Vishal
ashad harak they're all from Big binary
and they've they've they've done
wonderful thems for themselves and uh
they've also guided me a lot
I would feel really lonely if I was the
only Indian there but these guys are
there and I can ask them anything
they're awesome even like everybody else
as well like sahil as a boss
he it doesn't feel like he's a boss like
he doesn't make you feel like he's the
BS and
he's he's honestly like it's it's such a
good working environment you have your
independent agency to do things like I I
fully built multiple features people are
giving full ownership of entire
products uh and
um everybody's sort of working in a
supportive way right everybody supports
each other and you also like you trust
other people to do stuff like
so to get something done like you have a
expectation that okay if this person
said they'll do it they do it and it's
at a very high quality so for me who is
very very early in my career it's such a
blessing to learn from these guys
and to Aspire to be like
them very cool what's your future plan
let's say 5 years down the
line I have no
idea absolutely none let's see what
happens with with the
VISA let's say the Visa gets approved I
go to New York right so I'll be working
with the G there's a lot of things we
need to do so
antiwork right formerly called gumroad
we have multiple products and we've
recently launched a few and we we want
to grow these products as well so
there's a lot of work to do and
uh we feel like we've cracked the code
or at least we feel like we're pushing
AI usage uh much more than other people
um so that's what we're trying to
capitalize on sahil talks a lot about
this on his tweets so you should go
check that out and
um there's a lot to do at gumroad so
let's see all right I've seen he has a
YouTube channel yeah he's posting stuff
I was looking at a video recently so
yeah very cool he had a tweet where he
said uh PMS are now 40x more productive
Engineers are 4X more productive and
like some metrics around them what are
your thoughts do you think you're more
productive
so if I look at myself I can't judge how
productive I am because I like I only
see
the the stuff that's blocking me right
and there's always stuff that's blocking
me now it's just that different stuff
blocks me so I would say ke yes there is
a big big Improvement how many times
that I can't see 2x at least 2
3x initially we had hoped he'd be 10x
20x X but it's not that much it's it's
lower but it's it's a substantial
number that's true for PMS I'd say this
is more true for PMS uh engineering less
so because the problem with using AI for
engineering is even though you should
use it everybody should use
AI when you get stuck you have to
understand everything from the beginning
of what AI started so if you try to
solve a particular problem and AI solves
like 80% of it to solve the remaining 20
you have to understand the 0 so it
effectively when you're in this
situation it ends up taking as much time
as it would have if you did it without
AI but AI is a great way to quickly
access information like earlier you had
to search for uh like a particular bug
fix or you had to search
um uh like some specific documentation
detail now all of that is in the weights
of the llm so you just need to ask it
something and it gives it to you and
it's it's a great knowledge retrieval
tool and soon to be a great
um engineering tool it's already a great
engineering tool but um a really good
coding tool as
well yeah oh that's it I think that's
all I had do you have anything else to
add I do want to add something um first
of all this wouldn't have been possible
without all the people who have made me
who I
am um my parents
[Music]
who you really can't uh like I wouldn't
be anything without them right they
raised me and they've come from pretty
humble backgrounds as well I've heard
stories where uh 20 or 25 years ago when
I was I think a baby or not even born
they lived in a nagar and they uh there
were was the like very small room and
when Nana Nani D Dadi used to come to
somebody used to sleep on the table
table
Pia so they've they've built themselves
up they've built themselves up and given
me a life where um I haven't had to
worry about financial backing so I'm
very very grateful for that much of any
everything that I've been able to do has
has been
because I have had that security key my
parents are there and they're always
there for me and I can't thank them
enough for
that also would like to thank my brother
who's always been there for me um great
inspiration I would like to extremely
grateful for uh my best friend and
partner she's um stuck with me in the
thick and thin uh and uh she's awesome
all my professors at Asoka all my school
teachers um one one thing I particularly
remember is a course um introduction to
computer programming by Shish banerji
that
course made M played a huge part in the
program programmer I am it was the
hardest course I've ever taken but it it
shaped me and I'll always be indied to
him for that
uh my school teachers who pushed me
college professors okay and through
college right I got to know about you
and you've been a huge part you've been
a big part in this entire
thing if it wasn't for your videos
I obviously I wouldn't be here
right and there are so many people I
can't even remember but from my little U
intellect that I can Master right now
trying to name all the names the last
and final person who's actually on
the highest on the list is Swami G and I
wanted to keep him for last because
um won't be able to stop talking about
him so um yeah Swami G is actually how
my journey started I was in college and
I was about to drop out essentially my
first year at College was very very bad
and and I
think we have a GPS system 4.0 is the
highest
2.3 first year I failed a few courses
got I was also interested in
spirituality and I wanted to learn from
Swami G so he was the
one everything failed M then reached out
to swam
then Swami intervened and he he sort of
told me spirituality is not for
losers then he said now go back to
college and you have to come first in
everything that you do like all the
courses you have to come first like all
a and then I I pushed hard and he pushed
me and he
was Life movie
but he was the one who pushed me really
really hard to um do that even in my job
period when I was in my third year I
think before IID met you he was the one
my pressure by current like people
younger than you are are like working a
job together they earning crores in
money and um they they're doing their
college degree as well people in high
school are doing
this so
uh that sort of pressure and because he
knew I was interested in spirituality
and I haven't found a replacement for my
uh interest in
spirituality if you don't if you can't
succeed in the material world what will
you do in the spiritual world because
spiritual the spiritual world is 100
times harder than the material world so
it's not for losers and mostly 99%
losers spiritual world you have to you
have to earn at
least so he's he's been through thick
and thing for
me his name is Swami aim
bodhan
Swami so he lives in aloda and whenever
I go to chandar to meet Nani so he comes
and goes That's how I get to interact
with him so very very blessed to have
somebody like him in my life and he is
the reason why I got to know
you so uh yeah I attribute most of My
Success to
him very cool that's what a sweet ending
to the podcast with a lot of gratitude
thank you so much Karen for joining um
and wishing you all the best for your
future as well thank you via so much for
inviting me to this podcast thank